okay so this week we'll be talking about
conditional random fields first step
announcements for five will be released
later tonight
able to be doing two weeks so policy
discourses there's only there's that
most one thing do we cattle competition
is due next week so for five we'll be
doing two weeks and if you're planning
ahead with the first course is actually
nothing to do the week of the 23rd and
then tell me what picked you thereafter
with regard to come up with about four
or five in will be about in this round
field you can strongly encourage that
you use the skeleton code they'll be
able and we don't have to of course but
it makes I think it makes things a lot
easier and regarding the cattle
competition the competition closes next
Tuesday and then I was a winner in class
and the via Shore report documenting
what you guys did method you try highly
validated so on and so forth and I must
have a second exercise enough that it
should be a short report do be a Moodle
on the Thursday what is your concept of
short yeah I'm thinking like five ish
pages plus some plots
that's that's my idea so like in terms
of text three pages of the text so
that's that should be enough the
documents are what method you tried the
range of - matters and so on so if you
choose to submit a twenty page by up
you're really okay so today we'll do a
first do a brief recap of sequence
prediction and then we'll jump into the
conditional random field which you can
think of as a sequential version of
depression and now just how hidden
Markov models is a sequential version of
value base another way to think of this
kind of close it is a discriminative
special model that looks optimized
Kritika probably over output sequences
give different sequences rather than a
generative model entity Markov models
and we'll talk about each of these
points about this lecture just a recap
of sequence prediction we have a
sequence of inputs a sequence of outputs
and for this for this lecture we'll only
be looking at the supervised learning
Trixie so the training data you give
both X's and Y's and the X's are the
inputs of the Y's of the outputs that
you want to predict alright so the
previous lecture we talked about a range
of issues in the previous week bunker a
range of issues that are more flexible
types of questions you can ask by a
generative models and also unsupervised
learning stars we only get that this
axis as training applies for this week
we're only looking at the supervised
learning scenario where you get both X's
and Y's this training and why is it what
you only need care about per day okay so
so sequence of tokens you can think of
this words but it puts as words in the
outputs as far speech times you just
week
just a sample supposed to get six part
of speech tags and boarding put sequins
on fish sleep the label is now bird
where they put Sookie's doggie at
homework is mrs. Turin Albert went down
the Fox compass influence the Fox top of
the fence
yeah let's equals winter now burn
composition indeterminate
this is the sequence prediction problem
okay so as we talked about last week you
know we could think oh we could naively
think of each possible output sequence
as separate classification tasks in this
our second sub superclass and then train
a multi class prediction problem which
basically scores over all possible
length sequences as a different process
rights each of these because in a
different class and this leads to a
essentially an exponential number of
classes like in the length of the
sequence which is in general intractable
or even moderately long sequences that
we want to predict and even much worse
from the number of our speech tags or
wherever your output sequence state
space is much larger this course this
type of model came out everything in
theory because it's a fun structure you
can model any type of relationship but
that type of unstructured or something
lack of structure comes at the cost of
an exponential explosion in the
parameter space so we don't want this so
we count from nice because well the
other alternative is to forget about the
fact that this is a sequence prediction
problem and just simply predict on each
word in the equal sequence independently
to Alice right script I and appended
Liam proficient at 10
each one of these is now a six class
predictive power and you have a string
of six class / two problems visited our
traffic problem and then you can
calculate the predictions so number of
classes equals number of our speechpad
six in our example solid wall using
multi-touch prediction but again as we
saw last week ignores contact so in
particular I leaned dependent classifier
would classify fish as a now because
it's more on a noun and a verb let's say
in our training set but it is
particularly
between I often it is actually a little
so this is a this model class is to
simply it poses the most rigorous
structure in subsets right and
everything is including the end of
everything else so we'll talk last week
about the first-order hidden Markov
model which is a general approach to
generalize a nice base to model
sequences right so in the input
sequences X now let's equals y then the
hidden Markov model model is fully
defined by these probability functions
we were probability a given that were in
state Y so one of the parts of each bag
whether probably that we would observe
some work given them were in the group
given that the current state is why I
what is the probability of the next
state the next part speech time is miles
then special and again these are just
special cases of the transition
probability but a special one for this
promise special starts data especially
one transit to the special ends all
right these things that you hopefully
into
and this is again Doh graphical model
representation of a hidden Markov model
and many of these models can be
representative of the models form and
the basic idea is that the arrows of the
path of the model corresponds to exactly
the finest structure of the probability
distribution call then the full leads
are naive unstructured setting well
model all possible XY pairs and this
structural assumption these arrows say
that the actual probability factorizes
multiplicatively infeasibility almonds
and the key thing that makes hmm
trackable is that these components are
replicated repeatedly applied as you go
on to chance the so therefore the model
does not blow up with respect to the
length of the list of the sequences any
questions on this should be
okay and we'll be using a lot of matrix
notation in this lecture just because
it's very convenient some of the go over
is slide various props painfully slowly
just so we're on the same page because
I'll be using matrix notation for
recipes for the rest of lecture so
recall that visit hmm so that much the
original field will use a similar very
similar limitations for this lecture so
recall that the drug probability in hmm
is factorizing to the probability of the
last state in the in the observe the
laws output state transition to end
optional in many cases times for each
token in the sequence probability of the
Jade output token in producing the Jade
inputs open times the transition
probably the J minus one top the token
transitioning to the Jade and in the
matrix form this corresponds to two
matrices of parameters and a matrix
which is called as transition matrix and
an OLE matrix which is called the
emission matrix also known as the
observation majors and they basically at
every entry in this matrix correspond
basic corresponds to one of these
probabilities if you think of these
probabilities as probably tables
two-dimensional probability tables right
in which case these matrices basic
correspond to basically matrix form of
that two-dimensional project so entry
and again I guess there was some
confusion about that what is the
semantics of the row versus the column
it does not matter as long as you are
consistent within urine within your own
implementation what is the if is that is
the first index the row or the column of
kovrov the previous or the former
doesn't matter yet so check this first
here right it's the only day I'm sorry
the am lol consistent ring so she should
be just a Dolce J minus 1 to j the
percentage should be the condition
engines never air outlet
you mean I switch the quarter yeah we'll
get up and eat next Ellie okay so yeah
okay so this an old corresponds to this
piece of a course bosses yeah sure now
just because of consistency I'm just
like so I understand yeah but begin the
first entry should feel like
conditioning and the second one to the
variable right like the bird the first
entry should be conditioning so
incredible you creation of either you
could do it either way this is the trend
one is this a transpose of the other but
anything inconsistent is there the first
entry is white conditioning on to the a
the second entry herb but it's the first
entry is the output I the variable the
same time for centuries which is the
academia is what you transition from the
first centuries would exploit these are
currently yeah Julia morale when saying
the O's the motor century with oh there
should be a response to the current
state and the X corresponds to the
emission of the current state I don't
see why it's inconsistent so this J its
finest how you like it yeah but the
whole is fine I see you think that this
actually corresponds to P upon as one
could give it you if you had a
consistency for a then it doesn't I'm
defining without signing this as this
okay you minified it the reverse way
it's the transpose of this as long as
you are consistent it's fine okay
I'm literally defining this is this
probability table as just an essence
matrix so I okay this is it yes I this
is an important point this song I hope
that everyone who after they've done the
homework is just comfortable regardless
of how the notation is as long as they
know that they need to maintain
consistency within the implementation
because when you look at implementations
that people have in a while they'll
define it either way but as long as
they're internally consistent within
their implementation is totally fine so
my definition for this lecture is for
the a matrix the first entry is this
curve state and is that and the second
entry in that index is the previous
state and then for the O matrix the
first entry is the current state and the
second entry is the emission of the work
okay
of course yeah you know movie tears
electric you do something like this to
it's just the notation was it blow up so
I don't want to do that
okay it's the recap the first order
sequence models so you're able to so
it's something then something that sits
between general multi path which you
know very intractable one you once
computer unique score for each entire
sequence and between dependability
closet which makes very strong
independent assumptions so first order
model source between it's a scoring
puncture prepare of tokens and her
emission probability so it's somehow
sweet spot between fully general
and boolean so just a comment on the
relationship between naive Bayes and hmm
s because this relationship is analogous
to logistic regression air conditioned
random fields on the recall the visitor
this is the sort of Pablo the assumption
of naive Bayes which is not a sequential
model physics a single Y could be multi
class Y could be multi class but it's a
single 1s and then there's the problem
here's the village of uniting base and
the key assumption the key texture
carries over from the two is sort of
there's naive generative independence
assumption on taxes given
so you can think of HMMs as a
first-order sequential variant of u19
phase there's those behind gloss okay
I'm sorry Jay
okay now just another viewpoint hmm
tonight base our general model which
means the model the entire joint
distribution of input-output pairs but
and one reason and given service
independence numbers such as the naive
in basic the pendulum is built in the
book nine base and hidden Markov models
they're easy to train you just their
compact they're easier trainees do
counting from the training set frequency
pounds some of this regular Isaac pseudo
counts too often regular eyes with
pseudo counts and then you train by
taking some training set now this
subscript is indexes of our training
examples and superscripts I'll use index
over tokens within a sequence so given
the training set set set of training
sets you find a patter ization which is
often missionary terminology like all
the parameters of your model system this
is purpose capital theta this is very
common terminology so you can think of
this is the a and the whole matrix so
this is maximum likelihood training and
if the data was sampled independently
from the tests from the true
distribution the test distribution that
we want to model this probabilities or
having multiple good the key challenge
the key difficulty with using hmms and
naive Bayes for or the standard
prediction task is that in the standard
prediction task
our goal is given an x predict the best
one which if you have a probabilistic
model is given an x predictor y that has
the highest problem in okay but you know
we didn't train our model to maximize
this we train the model to maximize this
right and so there's a mismatch between
the training goal and the prediction and
the conventional prediction goal so you
know maybe we should actually train a
model to maximize this instead of this
right wouldn't be great to actually to
make our training criteria maximize the
conditional probability of training set
condition on the XS
so rather than the joint so it's weird
in some sense if your goal is to your
goal is this the only thing you could
ever use your model for right give it an
input sequence predicted output signals
it's rare to trader define a model this
way in order to mortar train this train
like this when in some sense intuitively
we should be trained a model that
maximizes this book right
we should maximize the conditional
likelihood over a training session of
the X's in our training set so if we use
um if we still want to use a hidden
Markov model right which they actually
defines in drug distribution this
actually becomes this right and this
term becomes this and this is actually a
highly pretty complicated optimization
you break all the independent some
you know Morgan cases which count
statistics it just becomes very messy
and both each immense and naive as well
this counting thing it maximizes that's
yes so for both for both naive Bayes and
each other sorry
yeah so if you look if you people back
to lecture from last week work for like
the first lecture on Tuesday we talked
about how for naive Bayes this is true
and then the second I feel comfortable I
alluded to how from the fridge events
that this is true it it is pretty easy
to see
in practice of course with finite sample
sizes we do regularly to regularize with
su accounts
okay so this is hard this this is
actually a hard optimization propagating
the model structure members it's not
clean it's got it's messy but and so if
maybe the lesson to take from this is if
you have a probabilistic model if you
define a probabilistic model of a
certain form use your maximize the
likelihood of that model that you define
on your training set and that's some
other model if you define a Joint
Distribution use your maximum if you
decide to model the Joint Distribution
for whatever reason maybe from the
variety of reasons we talked about in
the previous lecture previous previous
week then you should train your model
your to maximize the joint probability
over your training set
if you define a conditional model like P
of Y given X as your model and you'll
care about the Joint Distribution thing
you should maximize the length of it of
py given X at infinity and that's what
we folks have for most of this week yeah
other situations others coincide or just
generally not what is that attack
seismic joints maximize it with a
conditional
I mean there's a degenerate case where X
is the nice always the same yeah but
what you said that that's my seat I'm
sorry just repeat what you said I didn't
follow the counter right yeah uh it's a
conditional probability why Debora is to
maximize it
oh because this thing is like this thing
decomposes multiplicatively into terms
like this so as you saw in the previous
week images reprime arises into map into
the log-likelihood
it's a bunch of songs right and then you
could show that this is the this is the
optimal solution if you want to match it
if you this is your model and you want
to maximize this when this is your model
then you have to divide by this right
and this makes it very messy so the
lesson to the high level lesson is
whatever model you define you should
maximize it like you live that model on
your training stuff if you define a drug
distribution which when they quit hmm
and now you've based define you should
match mais likelihood of that Joint
Distribution training set if you recall
from the first week or a second week of
lecture we showed that log loss was
minimizing log loss was equivalent to
maximizing the like conditional
likelihood of logistic regression but
much of the regression so lunch equation
defines a conditional probability of Y
given X and maximizing the conditional
likelihood of that probability
distribution on your training set is
equivalent to minimizing the log X week
we saw that and we'll and so we'll see
something very similar
so there are models now the drug
distribution use Bayes rules to predict
the most frequent prediction tasks one
benefits they can generate new samples
they could also sort of filling missing
values examples within market models at
night base scurry remodels directly
model the conditional distribution that
cannot model the Joint Distribution the
only model the conditional distribution
but now whatever you learn is used to
directly make predictions on the most
common prediction tasks and these
include condition out of doors and
logistic regression and both models are
trained by a maxim blood movement right
if you are defined a generative model
you maximize this probability on your
training set
if you define the conditional model you
maximize this probability of the
transept religious regression that's
equivalent to minimizing the lawfulness
so here's a first try this is sort of
the unstructured model right similar to
what we saw last Tuesday with
unstructured joint normal here's an
unstructured conditional model where we
just sort of have this table that we
model even for the disk classifying a
single watt a binary line sort of given
two axes or all possibilities was the
company-wide giving this these two axes
right and if you do define your public
your people I'd given x in this way you
can in fact train about this counting
the drawback of course is that this type
of unstructured model has complexity
this exponential in the inner length of
X in case where X equal four there's two
ads of each X is a binary fit value then
it's there's four possibilities and that
sort of scales with the palm vo is right
scales with the Winkler
so we need to assume something we can't
just do this we need to assume some
additional structure what's your use I
would normally ask the class but the
answer is something that repeated five
times in the first 10 notes so the
answer is no just a progression which is
you know also known as a log of your
model
so recall from I it goes the end of the
first second week of class this is the
this is the largest regression for a
linear binary classification right so
the idea is you have some vector of X's
and our multi-class classification in
this case and then you have a weight
vector for class and then use and then
the probability of that Y given that X
is proportional to e to the as linear
scoring function divided by the sum of
all the scores if it's often called log
linear because it's linear within the
exponent so this is the most common
discriminative probabilistic model of
suppression well prediction
you know pick the why to maximize the
conditional probability of AI given
something forex training not train the
train the parameters of this model which
is basically all the W's and the B's the
biases to maximize the conditional
likelihood of the training it note that
now they match right what your training
goal matches your predictions and you
trick to this model on a training set
you can be confident this model is being
tuned to get good performance on your
prediction tasks that you can assume is
that this is the only two different a
station
so let's do a comparison of naivebayes
versus logistic regression right strong
independence on just two breeds the
trade mismatch between prediction looks
kind of like this regression let's help
this welcoming assumption so now the
reason why this is has fewer parameters
than that an unstructured conditional
model is that we making a linear
assumption
harvard-trained you have to use great
descent these days not too hard it's
still harder not just courage night of
Bayes if you think about the rounded
number of parameters between on your
face for siliceous compression you look
at the first term right it has L
parameters one for each possible life is
help L hospitalized and once your
freshman has L priorities for the each
of the bias terms 90 basis L times D
parameters for this probability table P
of X given Y well as regression is also
L times D parameters for a w4w vector
for each free tribe they have the same
number of parameters in some in this
very real sense both logistic regression
and naive Bayes have the same model
complexity
so another way of phrasing is that both
models have the same capacity on the one
hand naive base spends a lot of that
capacity on modeling P of X is amol as
the Joint Distribution right largest
aggression spends all of that capacity
modeling P of Y given X so given that
your model is the imperfect model of the
record you're tryna capital the
phenomena trying to capture given yet
finite training data if this is your
goal the night launch equation spends
more of all of the mama capacity how to
fit that whereas naive ace tries to do
more things which means that it does
less well on this goal
no model is perfect night basic
trade-off between this and the you know
trade-off you can estimating everything
included which includes this and this
right about regression given the same
number of parameters will try to fit
this as well
and the same intuition of course
generalizes to each event versus
conditional mannequins okay so that is
the some involvement in recap but now
we're going to talk about deals yeah
this one yeah another new face I'm sorry
there should be it should be or
something over K and so kegels you want
to capital up so with L different weight
vectors yes
so imagine in the binary case into the
business to all because we have our
classes okay yeah yeah
okay here's the definition of
conditional fields just waffles walk us
through it so recall that axis and input
sequence and why is analyzing output
sequence the probability of Y given X is
defined by this term so it's has been
exact same form as it has logistic
regression it says that the scoring role
on the inside is not just a simple at
least not in this version a simple right
so with this so basically we have the
same number of parameters as ahead of
Marco Polo's we have this transition
scoring from squirrel and this
observation scoring ball we're basically
linear in the sum of the scores of
transitions and observations so what
does this mean if we have watch an
example in exploitation so so every we
go through every token in this input in
the sequence and enforce any for any
given Y we'd be the score of the
transition from the previous token to
the purpose token could be the
probability of the current token being
associated with this word now there's no
independence or or conditional
probabilities no independence assumption
everything's just sum together just like
how much aggression everything's some
together whereas now you basically these
generating assumptions that no
generating accept is there everything's
just some together just like in logistic
regression and this this term here is
also known as the partition function
which is a term borrowing physics the
statistical mechanics and the basic idea
is the same we take a summation over a
bunch of scores we add them up we
exponentiated
and then we divide by the same by the
same scoring exponential score over all
possible sequences so the probability of
this particular input sequence X
generating any given output sequence Y
is proportional to e to this scoring
rule which sums over the
scoring room scores and the emission
scores
I have an operation demo
yeah why would we send over the ring put
the sequins
- what times ok so recall recall that
annum and hidden Markov models you take
a product over the sequence right so you
know if you sum of the length of the
sequence inside the exponent you're
actually taking a product with the
students but we're not making any
explicit independence or generative
assumptions it's just e to a subtotal
story so are the ano here the one wise
logs from the previous part of the
previous I'm sorry
are they the logs of the previous is a
node like 4 and 5 a.m.
yeah so IDs the logs of those are the
actual probabilities they're very very
there if you were to interpret these as
probabilities there will be the loss of
those problems yeah so I don't know how
much okay so those of you who've done
some extra work on logistic regression
know that the coefficient the
coefficient of logistic regression the
W's correspond to an increase in blog
odds as you increase the X info you can
think of this similarly as the increase
in log odds of some sequence as you
increase the serve transition as you as
you add a certain transition so I've
also again like there an implicit
acceptance already it's in the progress
implicit assumption for independence
completely physicians right we have a we
have an independent assumption but the
but it's not a dreaded along right
conditioned on the observation we have
yet we have conditions if it isn't in it
we assume that the squirrels independent
if factorizes paralyzed but it doesn't
define a full each other involved so in
order be secular
research three subscripts yeah and next
lecture we'll look at a more general
formulation of CRFs which will
so do you recall that so there's some
connection filling this in hmm although
so we called in an hmm so you take the
product over every thing in this
sequence right so if we sum in the
exponent it's equal to taking the
product of each of these right
what would I make any generative
assumptions but it has this if you think
about that way I have the same structure
as an hmm but it's not a generative
model to the square root of so you know
e to the sum is equal to the product of
P to the individuals